# Medical Research and Development
During my exchange period in Finland, my team developed a research article to predict worsening heart failure. Here's an abstarct of our research and findings. If you want to know more, feel free to download the research paper attached in this branch! 
## Background
Heart failure (HF) is a cardiovascular disease (CVD) that continues to be a major burden in the healthcare system and will continue to worsen in the future. Emphasis to develop and implement effective strategies to predict HF related events preemptively is crucial in freeing economic burden and improve overall patients livelihood. In this study, a meta-analysis of different research of predictive telemonitoring for patients suffering HF was carried out. Internet-based data collection and an interview were conducted to determine crucial, conventional and unconventional parameters. The selection criteria of the research papers were as follows: articles were searched from 2006 to 2020 and only peer reviewed, published randomised controlled trials (RCTs) related to heart failure symptoms and parameters to diagnose or predict heart failure are included. The top three conventional parameters used by researchers are blood pressure (63%), weight (47%), and heart rate (47%). As for unconventional parameters, nocturnal respiration rate, impedance, lung volume, electrocardiography (ECG) and ballistocardiography (BCG) were considered. Other parameters include respiration rate, heart rate variability, waist size and pulse pressure. Ultimately, it was found that the use of ECG and BCG concurrently produced the best results. To ensure the safety of the product, the standards were also taken into account if a system were to be produced in the future and mostly affecting the manufacturing is the European Medical Device Regulation (MDR). The implementation of Chatbots can potentially facilitate the collection of routine-based data as well as act as a medium of evaluating patient’s inputs/problems. In conclusion, ECG and BCG are the parameters considered in this study, demonstration of specification and requirements product meets must be taken into account, the regulation taken into account is MDR, and the utilization of AI chatbots will be beneficial. However, the success of the device lies on its ability to be multipronged.
